Life is painful. The pain is your motivation to make changes. 
If you want to end your pain don’t avoid feeling your pain. 
Think about your suffering and what caused it. 
Contemplate the events deeply. 
Feeling your pain is a way to learn about yourself and it’s also the motivation to make improvements. 
If you avoid pain you avoid the message from within. What is the deepest part of you trying to tell you? Feel it. Contemplate. 
And discover the lessons. The lessons are always about you. 
Not the others. 
Which mistakes did you make and which changes do you need to make? The pain will help you remember the lessons well. Then forgive the past and take the information into the future. You can’t change the past. Every lesson is for today and tomorrow only. 
Not yesterday. 
New opportunities and events constantly come. 
Not everyday. 
Every year. 
So that every painful event holds a lesson which leads towards better choices today and tomorrow. ASK QUESTIONS. QUESTIONS. 
QUESTIONS. Of everyone and everything. 
Always be looking for the answers. 
So, with one small step at a time, the lessons you teach yourself lead to better choices and a better life. 
AND the only way to a better life is by making these improvements to yourself. YOU are not the house, the car, or the clothes. 
YOU end where you body ends, you extend no farther than your skin. 
Your heart, mind, and spirit are the only things you will have all the days of your life. So you must apply all lessons within. If no changes are made within (to your THOUGHTS, ACTIONS, AND CHOICES) then no lesson has been learned even when you remember it well. Internal changes are the foundation and root of all improvements to your life. You become the source. You are the center. And it spreads outward from you. Remember that this is a long term approach to life and it moves in harmony with the fact that life is a journey of decades. Every decade has many lessons to teach. Think of your life as a long and winding river. How much depth will you have when you reach the sea?